README.md, before:

# Binary Tree Messages

This test builds up a binary tree of messages.

Instead of a JSX like:

```
<Console>
  <Message />
  <Message />
  <Message />
  <Message />
</Console>
```

It looks like:

```
<Console>
  <MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        <Message />
    </MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        <Message />
    </MessageTree>
  </MessageTree>
  <MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        null
    </MessageTree>
    null
  </MessageTree>
</Console>
```

## Timing for this test:

```
addInitialMessage: 10.27ms
render: 1143.71ms
index.js:8
addMessage: 19.90ms (average 19.90ms)
addMessage: 16.54ms (average 18.22ms)
addMessage: 18.22ms (average 18.22ms)
addMessage: 13.51ms (average 17.04ms)
addMessage: 10.75ms (average 15.78ms)
addMessage: 13.90ms (average 15.47ms)
addMessage: 10.47ms (average 14.76ms)
addMessage: 9.70ms (average 14.12ms)
addMessage: 11.20ms (average 13.80ms)
addMessage: 8.99ms (average 13.32ms)
addMessage: 7.93ms (average 12.83ms)
addMessage: 7.39ms (average 12.38ms)
addMessage: 7.78ms (average 12.02ms)
addMessage: 6.06ms (average 11.60ms)
addMessage: 7.08ms (average 11.30ms)
addMessage: 6.91ms (average 11.02ms)
addMessage: 6.35ms (average 10.75ms)
addMessage: 5.75ms (average 10.47ms)
addMessage: 6.94ms (average 10.28ms)
addMessage: 7.68ms (average 10.15ms)
addMessage: 14.56ms (average 10.36ms)
addMessage: 7.81ms (average 10.25ms)
addMessage: 6.91ms (average 10.10ms)
addMessage: 6.72ms (average 9.96ms)
addMessage: 6.65ms (average 9.83ms)
addMessage: 7.55ms (average 9.74ms)
addMessage: 7.52ms (average 9.66ms)
addMessage: 6.20ms (average 9.54ms)
addMessage: 5.76ms (average 9.40ms)
```

## Profile

[https://perfht.ml/2mnNgYn](https://perfht.ml/2mnNgYn)

The update took significantly less time than the simple version.

# Slightly modified example

I modified the example slightly. This example only adds 1 message to the list of 10,000

[https://perfht.ml/2mmdlqP](https://perfht.ml/2mmdlqP)

```
addInitialMessage: 17.31ms
bundle.js:27619:5
render: 1526.8ms
addMessage: 9.98ms (average 9.98ms)
addMessage: 5.35ms (average 7.67ms)
addMessage: 3.86ms (average 6.40ms)
addMessage: 2.80ms (average 5.50ms)
addMessage: 3.05ms (average 5.01ms)
addMessage: 2.93ms (average 4.66ms)
addMessage: 2.77ms (average 4.39ms)
addMessage: 5.89ms (average 4.58ms)
addMessage: 3.32ms (average 4.44ms)
addMessage: 4.38ms (average 4.43ms)
addMessage: 3.48ms (average 4.34ms)
addMessage: 3.63ms (average 4.28ms)
addMessage: 3.91ms (average 4.26ms)
addMessage: 3.17ms (average 4.18ms)
addMessage: 2.52ms (average 4.07ms)
addMessage: 2.06ms (average 3.94ms)
addMessage: 1.76ms (average 3.81ms)
addMessage: 2.89ms (average 3.76ms)
addMessage: 2.84ms (average 3.71ms)
addMessage: 3.34ms (average 3.70ms)
addMessage: 3.04ms (average 3.66ms)
addMessage: 1.69ms (average 3.57ms)
addMessage: 1.51ms (average 3.49ms)
addMessage: 1.41ms (average 3.40ms)
addMessage: 1.61ms (average 3.33ms)
addMessage: 1.58ms (average 3.26ms)
addMessage: 1.51ms (average 3.20ms)
addMessage: 1.43ms (average 3.13ms)
```

Commit message:

Update analysis with data structure

README.md, after:

# Binary Tree Messages

This test builds up a binary tree of messages.

Instead of a JSX like:

```
<Console>
  <Message />
  <Message />
  <Message />
  <Message />
</Console>
```

It looks like:

```
<Console>
  <MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        <Message />
    </MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        <Message />
    </MessageTree>
  </MessageTree>
  <MessageTree>
    <MessageTree>
        <Message />
        null
    </MessageTree>
    null
  </MessageTree>
</Console>
```

Rather than have messages in one big array, we try to make it easy to understand when the structure is different by dividing everything up into an immutable binary tree. The structure of the tree is such that only the leaf nodes have the messages. For instance, moving from 4 to 5 messages doubles the tree size. We only walk the entire tree during the initial render, every update then has to only walk the depth to the modified nodes, making it really quick to zero in on where work needs to be done.

```
            T                              T
         /     \          ->            /     \
       T         T                    T         T
     /  \       /  \                /  \       /  \
    m    m     m    m              T    T     T    T
                                  / \  / \   / \  / \
                                  m m  m m   m o  o o
```

## Timing for this test:

```
addInitialMessage: 10.27ms
render: 1143.71ms
index.js:8
addMessage: 19.90ms (average 19.90ms)
addMessage: 16.54ms (average 18.22ms)
addMessage: 18.22ms (average 18.22ms)
addMessage: 13.51ms (average 17.04ms)
addMessage: 10.75ms (average 15.78ms)
addMessage: 13.90ms (average 15.47ms)
addMessage: 10.47ms (average 14.76ms)
addMessage: 9.70ms (average 14.12ms)
addMessage: 11.20ms (average 13.80ms)
addMessage: 8.99ms (average 13.32ms)
addMessage: 7.93ms (average 12.83ms)
addMessage: 7.39ms (average 12.38ms)
addMessage: 7.78ms (average 12.02ms)
addMessage: 6.06ms (average 11.60ms)
addMessage: 7.08ms (average 11.30ms)
addMessage: 6.91ms (average 11.02ms)
addMessage: 6.35ms (average 10.75ms)
addMessage: 5.75ms (average 10.47ms)
addMessage: 6.94ms (average 10.28ms)
addMessage: 7.68ms (average 10.15ms)
addMessage: 14.56ms (average 10.36ms)
addMessage: 7.81ms (average 10.25ms)
addMessage: 6.91ms (average 10.10ms)
addMessage: 6.72ms (average 9.96ms)
addMessage: 6.65ms (average 9.83ms)
addMessage: 7.55ms (average 9.74ms)
addMessage: 7.52ms (average 9.66ms)
addMessage: 6.20ms (average 9.54ms)
addMessage: 5.76ms (average 9.40ms)
```

## Profile

[https://perfht.ml/2mnNgYn](https://perfht.ml/2mnNgYn)

The update took significantly less time than the simple version.

# Slightly modified example

I modified the example slightly. This example only adds 1 message to the list of 10,000

[https://perfht.ml/2mmdlqP](https://perfht.ml/2mmdlqP)

```
addInitialMessage: 17.31ms
bundle.js:27619:5
render: 1526.8ms
addMessage: 9.98ms (average 9.98ms)
addMessage: 5.35ms (average 7.67ms)
addMessage: 3.86ms (average 6.40ms)
addMessage: 2.80ms (average 5.50ms)
addMessage: 3.05ms (average 5.01ms)
addMessage: 2.93ms (average 4.66ms)
addMessage: 2.77ms (average 4.39ms)
addMessage: 5.89ms (average 4.58ms)
addMessage: 3.32ms (average 4.44ms)
addMessage: 4.38ms (average 4.43ms)
addMessage: 3.48ms (average 4.34ms)
addMessage: 3.63ms (average 4.28ms)
addMessage: 3.91ms (average 4.26ms)
addMessage: 3.17ms (average 4.18ms)
addMessage: 2.52ms (average 4.07ms)
addMessage: 2.06ms (average 3.94ms)
addMessage: 1.76ms (average 3.81ms)
addMessage: 2.89ms (average 3.76ms)
addMessage: 2.84ms (average 3.71ms)
addMessage: 3.34ms (average 3.70ms)
addMessage: 3.04ms (average 3.66ms)
addMessage: 1.69ms (average 3.57ms)
addMessage: 1.51ms (average 3.49ms)
addMessage: 1.41ms (average 3.40ms)
addMessage: 1.61ms (average 3.33ms)
addMessage: 1.58ms (average 3.26ms)
addMessage: 1.51ms (average 3.20ms)
addMessage: 1.43ms (average 3.13ms)
```
